# 4.3.9. Headings and sections

The `h1`–`h6` elements are headings.

The first element of **heading content** in an element of **sectioning content** represents the heading for that explicit section.

> Heading content defines the header of a section (whether explicitly marked up using sectioning content elements, or implied by the heading content itself).
> - `<h1>`, `<h2>`, `<h3>`, `<h4>`, `<h5>`, `<h6>`
>
> [3.2.4.2.4. Heading content]

> Sectioning content is content that defines the scope of *headings* and *footers*.
> - `<article>`, `<aside>`, `<nav>`, `<section>`
>
> Each sectioning content element potentially has a *heading* and an *outline*.
>
> [3.2.4.2.3. Sectioning content]

Certain elements are said to be **sectioning roots**, including blockquote and td elements. These elements can have their own outlines, but the sections and headings inside these elements do not contribute to the outlines of their ancestors.
- `<blockquote>`, `<body>`, `< details>`, `< dialog>`, `<fieldset>`, `<figure>`, `<td>`

> The **outline** for a sectioning content element or a sectioning root element consists of a list of one or more potentially nested sections. The element for which an outline is created is said to be the outline’s owner.
>
> A **section** is a container that corresponds to some nodes in the original DOM tree. Each section can have one heading associated with it, and can contain any number of further nested subsections. The algorithm for the outline also associates each node in the DOM tree with a particular section and potentially a heading. (The sections in the outline aren’t section elements, though some may correspond to such elements — they are merely conceptual sections.)
>
> [4.3.9.1. Creating an outline]

Sectioning content elements are always considered subsections of their nearest ancestor sectioning root or their nearest ancestor element of sectioning content, whichever is nearest, regardless of what implied sections other headings may have created.

For the following fragment (Example 24):

```html
<body>
  <h1>Foo</h1>
  <h2>Bar</h2>
  <blockquote>
    <h3>Bla</h3>
  </blockquote>
  <p>Baz</p>
  <h2>Quux</h2>
  <section>
    <h3>Thud</h3>
  </section>
  <p>Grunt</p>
</body>
```

the structure would be:
- Foo (heading of explicit body section, containing the "Grunt" paragraph)
  - Bar (heading starting implied section, containing a block quote and the "Baz" paragraph)
  - Quux (heading starting implied section with no content other than the heading itself)
  - Thud (heading of explicit section section)

> Notice how the section ends the earlier implicit section so that a later paragraph ("Grunt") is back at the top level.

Sections may contain headings of a rank equal to their section nesting level. Authors should use headings of the appropriate rank for the section’s nesting level.

Authors are also encouraged to explicitly wrap sections in elements of sectioning content, instead of relying on the implicit sections generated by having multiple headings in one element of sectioning content.

For example (Example 25), the following is correct:

```html
<body>
  <h1>Apples</h1>
  <p>Apples are fruit.</p>
  <section>
    <h2>Taste</h2>
    <p>They taste lovely.</p>
    <h3>Sweet</h3>
    <p>Red apples are sweeter than green ones.</p>
    <h3>Color</h3>
    <p>Apples come in various colors.</p>
  </section>
</body>
```

However, the same document would be more clearly expressed as:

```html
<body>
  <h1>Apples</h1>
  <p>Apples are fruit.</p>
  <section>
    <h2>Taste</h2>
    <p>They taste lovely.</p>
    <section>
      <h3>Sweet</h3>
      <p>Red apples are sweeter than green ones.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <h3>Color</h3>
      <p>Apples come in various colors.</p>
    </section>
  </section>
</body>
```

Both of the documents above are semantically identical and would produce the same outline in compliant user agents.
